The Year Without Pants: Wordpress.com and the Future of Work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=huXHFa2U-B0

By Scott Berkun
Presentation on Microsoft Research

- Insight from engineering manager in Wordpress, 2016.

- This presentation mostly talks about the culture shock of the speaker, he went from being an engineering manager in corporate world (microsoft), to an author, back to tech company.

- Wordpress is a serious company that is fully remote. Traffic, revenue, tech, etc. So, don't think remote work is only for unique, small-team start up.

- The typical management style mostly picks up from industrial revolution

> "It is only through enforced standardization of methods, enforced adoption of the best implements and working conditions, and enforced cooperation that this faster work can be assured. And the duty ...rest with management alone."
Frederick Winslow Taylor, Principles of Scientific Management.

- Where employee is just another cogs in the wheel. The manager is the central of everything. This is called Taylor-ism.

- This maybe works for some industries: Factories, banks, railroads, 

- For knowledge worker, we should do different philosophy

- How do you introduce teams and structure into a young, non-corporate culture of chaos and autonomy? Trust and clarity. In the book he summarized it as:

1. Hire great people.
2. Set good priorities.
3. Remove distractions.
4. Stay out of the way.”

Excerpt From
The Year Without Pants
Scott Berkun

- IRC is the equivalent of hallway/watercooler

- IRC is logged. Decision can be tracked.

- Skype for personal communication

- P2 (wordpress theme) for documentation

- People need to learn to differentiate between Process, Tradition, and Result

---

Q&A:
- Why he is hired?
The company is growing
40 - 50 people, now 200 people
Coordination issue is getting bigger

- How experts/consultant make a living?
The company pay the expert to say the idea. 
The company follow the idea. Usually the same idea as the management

- How about the meetup?
Met once a week

- What about performance review?
No formal process for review

"How do you know if you're doing a good job?"
They says: "idk"

Wordpress starts from open source community, where it's a volunteer based collaboration.
People come and go.

To make them stay, let's focus on intrinsic motivation rather than extrinsic motivation like promotion.

Like meaningful work, intellectual challenge, empowerment to build something that used by millions of users

- How was the hiring process?
No interview loop, hire by trial.
If they pass the trial, they're most likely good communication, no issue with working remotely, has good time-management

- How about fresh grad?
They hire craftsman tangible output. Like freelancers that has worked with clients.

If they can work freelance-ly, they know how to work remotely.

(Aldo) I assume company as prominent as wordpress would hire mediocre fresh grad, if they hire fresh grad at all.

- The company size?
When he join 40-50, now 200 people

- What about compensation and promotion?
Not a lot of discussion.

At the time, remote is already a privilege.
Wordpress pays above industry average.
They don't need to relocate and have more freedoms.
What else do they want?
Salary increase every year? Well, not in wordpress.

- How do you keep clarity?
I don't know, try your best everyday.
There's just no shortcut for building trust and clarity.
It accummulates.

- How to bond?
Find coworking space, it's subsidized by wordpress.

- How to fire? role isn't needed or bad at job.
Generally, people in Wordpress has T-shape skill, so unlikely they will fire people. But if we need to, just fire them.

- How to earn the trust?
One on one. overtime trust will grow organically.
Like they'll ask you for feedback.

---

Overall this talk is a hidden gem for remote working culture. I don't know that Wordpress (Automattic) is one of the pioneer of fully-remote company.
